How do you fix a shadowban? That is the
exact question that I'm going to be
answering in today's episode. And let me
start by saying I believe that 99% of
people will never be shadowbanned in
their entire life on Instagram. But 100%
of people feel like they've been
shadowbanned at one point or another. In
fact, according to a recent poll in my
own personal broadcast channel on
Instagram, 70% of respondents said that
they feel like they've been shadowbanned
at one point or another. So, in today's
episode, I'm going to do four things in
the following order. First, I'm going to
help you understand what exactly the
shadow ban actually is. Second, I'm
going to help you understand why it
feels so flipping common. Third, I'm
going to show you a way that you can
actually check to see if your account
has been shadowbanned, which not many
people talk about. And fourth, I'm going
to break down how you can overcome the
shadowban and break out of jail. But
first, like I said, let's start with the
dictionary definition of shadowban so
that we're all on the same page. A
shadowban is when a social media
platform secretly limits a user's
content visibility, making it seem like
they're posting normally, but others
can't see their posts in feeds or
searches. And the key word in this
definition is secret. I think a huge
reason why people feel like they've been
shadowbanned is because the algorithm
feels like a secret. For most people,
the algorithm is very confusing. It's
overwhelming. It's kind of this obscure
thing that they don't really understand.
they kind of hear everyone talking about
it, but it doesn't really make sense.
And so it feels kind of like a secret
and thus their account not getting very
many views or not getting as many views
as they feel that it should is also a
secret. But that's where I come in.
Hello, my name is Brock and it's my job
to help you understand the algorithm in
simple terms to give you the no BS facts
about how to actually grow on Instagram.
So, if you haven't already hit that
subscribe button, please do. I think we
might be past 100K at the time this
episode releases. We're super super
close right now. So, we'll see. If I've
already hit 100K, then let me know in
the comments below. And while I'm
constantly giving you algorithm updates
and best practices, if I'm to simplify
the algorithm into one sentence, it's
this. If you make good content that gets
people to watch, like, and even share,
your posts will get more views. Period.
I would argue that right now the
algorithm is simpler than it's ever been
before. Instagram and many other
platforms are continuing to make their
algorithms more and more refined where
it used to require a lot of different
inputs and all these different data
points to figure out if your post was a
good post. Now, after decades of
collecting data, these algorithms are
really, really skilled at figuring out
what posts are worthy of blowing up and
what posts probably aren't. Now, of
course, there are exceptions. There are
mistakes made by the algorithm. It is
not perfect, but it's a lot better today
than it was 5 or 10 years ago. You used
to be able to trick the algorithm and do
these little hacks. And while there are
some social media coaches who still
teach that if you stand on your left leg
and you say a magic word and then you
spin around three times, you'll go
viral, that's just not the case anymore.
It definitely used to be true that there
were like little things that you could
do with your hashtags or little settings
that you could enable. But now it's just
not really going to make a difference.
And so I would also argue that the
algorithm is more fair than it has ever
been. Followers matter less and good
content matters more. According to the
head of Instagram himself, follower
counts matter less than view and like
counts. So, while someone like myself
who has a bunch of followers on
Instagram might feel like that's not
fair because I worked so hard to get all
these followers. It's actually a more
level playing field across the board,
Instagram no longer cares that, oh,
Brock has 800k followers, he must make
really good content. No. Instead,
Instagram looks at each post from me and
each post from every single one of you
with a blank slate and asks the
question, is this a good post? And it
determines the answer to that question
based off how long are people watching
it for? Are people liking it? And then
the creme de la creme, are people
sharing it? But I would also say that
it's actually because of this fairness
that shadowbanning feels more common
than ever before. Basically, a fair to
everyone algorithm feels unfair or feels
like a disadvantage to people who
already have a big following or people
who have been on Instagram for a long
time. It used to be like, well, yeah, I
have 300 followers, so I'm not getting
very many views. Or, I have 300,000
followers, so yeah, I'm going to get a
lot of views. But now, again, since the
algorithm is more balanced and more
fair, if you have 300 followers, you can
get 300,000 views. You can go viral much
easier than you could have in the past.
And at the same time, if you have
300,000 followers, you have to work just
as hard as that person with 300
followers to go viral and to get views.
It's kind of like how inclusivity
programs can feel like a disadvantage to
people who have been in power for
hundreds of years. But I digress. People
like me with a large following are not
actually being disadvantaged. It just
feels like a disadvantage because we're
no longer getting the advantage that we
used to get. If we think of our posts
like running in a race, my posts as
someone with a large following used to
get a head start, but now we're all
starting at the same starting line. An
analogy that I've said before that I
feel is very helpful is that a level
playing field is also a more crowded
playing field. So it is more competitive
than ever before to get views. And then
you throw on top of that probably the
biggest and most important fact of all
which is simple supply demand economics.
supply, which in our case is the number
of posts being posted on a daily basis,
is at an all-time high. There are more
content creators than ever before. There
are hundreds of thousands, if not
millions of new content creators who are
starting every single month. And people
on average are posting more, at least
content creators and small business
owners are posting more in 2026 than
ever before in human history. So,
there's just more volume, more
competition, more posts being posted,
but there aren't necessarily that many
more views. Even though Instagram is
adding tens of millions of new users
every single month, and even though they
are over 3.5 billion monthly active
users now, the amount of time that we're
spending on our phones hasn't really
gone up. In fact, since 2020, daily
phone usage and social media consumption
has been either on a plateau or even a
slight decline. That's the demand side
of the equation. And so, if you have
supply that is higher than ever before
and demand that is either plateaued or
decreasing, of course, we're all going
to be getting less views. So, I'm not
here to gaslight you and I'm not here to
tell you that it doesn't suck to get low
views. I'm just trying to help you
understand why that might be the case
and why it feels so much like a
shadowban when I would say that for most
of us it isn't actually a true
shadowban. The keyword in the definition
for shadowban is secret. Also, because
Instagram actually doesn't make it a
secret. They actually created a way
where you can check to see if you are
truly being shadowbanned, which kind of
takes the secretiveness, the shadow out
of it. Basically, there's a way to check
if you are banned on Instagram. And when
I say banned, I don't mean like banned
from logging into your account
completely locked out. I just mean
banned from certain features, banned
from certain perks, or maybe even just
restricted from some of the normal ways
you would expect your account to
operate. Basically, you can go to your
Instagram settings, scroll down, and tap
on the button that says account status,
and make sure that you're in good
standing. If you see green check marks
next to all of these, then good job.
Instagram is not throttling your reach
or shadowbanning you. Additionally, if
you see any red X's or anything other
than a green check, you can actually tap
on it and learn about what happened. Did
you have a comment that was taken down?
Did you have a post that had to be
removed? Did you take some kind of
action that is against Instagram's
community guidelines? But again, the
algorithm is a computer, so it makes
mistakes. Sometimes it'll remove a
comment that says it was a hate comment
and it was just you saying something
nice to your friend. Sometimes it will
remove a post because it misdiagnoses
what was in the post. If it was truly a
mistake, which definitely happens from
time to time, there is an appeal process
and you can actually go through that
appeal process right there in the
account status settings. If it wasn't a
mistake and yeah, you accidentally did
post a picture of your butt or yeah, you
were really angry and you left a nasty
comment on someone's page and you have
an account violation, don't worry. All
hope is not lost. Usually, these strikes
or restrictions do resolve themselves.
Typically, the first restriction that
ever happens on your account usually
only lasts for about 3 hours and then it
resets. The second one lasts for 7 hours
and the third one lasts for an entire
day. If you pass that third strike, then
the restrictions start getting longer.
So, if you pass the 24-hour mark, your
fourth strike will usually last about 3
days. Your fifth strike will last an
entire week. And your final strike can
last anywhere from 3 weeks to a month or
even longer. And for most of us, these
violations, these strikes are not things
that we're going to have to worry about.
They're not things that we're ever
really going to be in jeopardy of
violating. If you do want to read
Instagram's terms and services, you can
read them by looking them up. I'll put
them in the show notes below as well.
But they spell everything out. And if
you break one of Instagram's guidelines,
especially if you break it knowingly,
like it wasn't a mistake that the
algorithm made, well then Instagram has
every right to ban you. That's not a
shadow ban. If they tell you what the
rules are and you break the rules, you
can't get mad at Instagram for enforcing
those rules. Are you ready to take your
business's marketing to the next level?
Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and
CRM platform that's designed to help you
connect with customers, boost
engagement, and grow your business
smarter. With Brevo, you can manage all
of your customer interactions in one
place. Nurture leads with their built-in
CRM, reach your audience through email
and SMS, and keep them coming back with
powerful automations. But here's where
it gets really exciting. Meet Aura,
Brebo's AI assistant. Aura helps you
craft smarter campaigns by suggesting
personalized content, optimizing send
times, and even analyzing performance
data to improve your strategy in real
time. It's like having a marketing
expert on your team who works 24/7. And
of course, Brevo also offers advanced
analytics, seamless integrations, and
AIdriven personalization. Everything
that you need to create multi-channel
campaigns that hit the mark every single
time. Get started for free today or use
code tribe50 to save 50% off their
starter and standard plans for the first
three months of the annual subscription.
Just head to www.brevo.com/tribe
and take your marketing further with
Brevo and Aura. Now, with all of that
being said, there are definitely some
topics that are kind of in a gray area
and some topics that Instagram has
admitted in the past to reducing the
reach of even though it wasn't in their
terms and service. So, let's talk about
those things. Early in 2024, Adam Lazeri
announced that political content was no
longer going to be eligible for
nonfollower reach. To put that in
layman's terms, basically, if you posted
something that was deemed political, and
we never really got a clear definition
for what that meant, because some people
believe that all things are political.
Some people believe that it was only if
you talked about like the presidency in
the United States. Basically, if you
posted something that the Instagram
algorithm deemed political, that content
would not be shown to anyone who didn't
already follow you. So, your existing
followers could see it, but it wasn't
going to be shown to anyone new, and it
wouldn't be able to be a post that could
grow your following. A few months later,
they added a setting that allowed you to
control how much political content you
saw. You could choose if you wanted all
of it, none of it, or some of it. And
then eventually because of so much push
back about a year later in 2025 they
announced that they were getting rid of
this restriction and political content
would be eligible for non-follower reach
again. But what this example does show
us is that Instagram is willing and they
literally have throttled the reach of
certain topics even if those topics are
cleared good and allowed by the terms of
service. Quick sidebar about political
content before I share a few of these
other gray areas that I wouldn't
recommend posting too much about is that
oftentimes I hear from people, I posted
about x political thing and it performed
horribly and Instagram is shadowbanning
me because of it. And I don't believe
that's the case. And I say that because
I've heard from people on every end of
the spectrum that Instagram is
throttling their reach. I've heard
people who are all the way to the right
and all the way to the left both
complain about the same thing. And so
Instagram is not throttling either of
your reach. What is more likely
happening is that that's not why people
follow you. People follow you because
you have great baking recipes. People
follow you because you have good
financial advice. And then you decided
to post about something political. I'm
not saying that's necessarily a bad
thing. I'm not saying that's right or
wrong. What I'm saying is you posted
about something that is divisive and
people were divided. And a lot of people
when they saw your post, they disagreed
and so they probably kept scrolling.
Maybe they pressed not interested. Maybe
they unfollowed you. And all of these
are negative forms of engagement in the
algorithm. And so when people do that,
the algorithm is like, "Whoa, whoa,
whoa. This is not a good post. People
are not watching it for a long time.
They're not liking and they're not
sharing. And so the algorithm decides to
show that post to less people." It's not
because Instagram as a platform has
decided that they are anti-left or
anti-right. It's simply that your
followers have decided, "I didn't follow
you for political content." And
according to a recent report put out by
Manyhat, the number one reason that
people unfollow other people on
Instagram is because those people are
posting political content. So if you're
a political content creator, of course,
post your political content. But for
most of us, most of the time, unless
it's something that's important, unless
something that you feel is necessary to
speak on, and by the way, I've done an
entire episode in the past on this topic
about when you should decide to speak up
and etc, etc. Basically, if you post
about political content and you post
your opinion online, don't be surprised
if it doesn't perform well. Finally, the
last thing I will say before I talk to
you about how you can break out of the
shadowban and break out of the 200 view
jail as some people call it is some of
these gray areas that I would just
generally recommend avoiding. These
include THC or marijuana. These include
alcohol, guns, adult content creators.
Even if you're posting something that's
not completely nude, if you're
semi-nude, if you're in a super small
bikini or a super small speedo,
Instagram will usually show those posts
to less people. And then finally, if
you're in the make money online niche
where you are a business coach who
coaches other business coaches to become
business coaches themselves, Instagram
does crack down on that niche because
there are a lot of people who are trying
to steal money from others and run Ponzi
schemes. And so these niches in general
are just something that I would
recommend staying away from. or if you
are in one of these niches, then you're
going to have to get creative with your
content. I've seen some people will say
S3X
to spell out that word instead of
spelling out the entire word. Also,
you'll often hear people using words
that rhyme with the word that might be
criminal activity or illegal. But with
all that being said, how do you actually
break out of the 200 view jail? How do
you overcome the shadow ban and get some
more views back to your Instagram
account? Number one, we need to
re-engage our existing followers. Now,
next week I'm going to be putting out an
episode on how do you revive a dead
account. So, definitely if that's
something where you're like, "Hey, I've
got some followers, but I just get no
engagement." Check out that episode next
week. It'll be super helpful for you.
Now, when I say we're going to make a
post that's going to re-engage our
existing followers, I need to make sure
we're clear. It's not going to be a
real. On average, carousels actually get
more engagement than reals, and they get
significantly more views from your
followers than reals, per a metrical
study from 2025. So, we're going to post
a carousel, not a reel. The second thing
we're going to do is in that carousel,
we're going to break the norm. This is
not just going to be one of your cookie
cutter 2022 carousels where there's like
a picture of you like this and then
there's like some big headline. This is
not going to be a YouTube thumbnail
style carousel. Instead, I want this
carousel to be creative, original. It
might be mixed media where it's photos
and videos. It might be memes. It might
be a super authentic and genuine and
vulnerable story that you've never told
before. Basically, this content should
not sound nor should it look like
anything else that you have ever posted
on your Instagram. Now, if you want help
coming up with one of these creative
carousel ideas, I've done multiple
episodes now, two different episodes
with eight different creative carousel
ideas in each of those episodes. So, go
check that out. And then the third thing
that you're going to do in this post to
re-engage your existing followers is
you're not going to educate. Way too
many people on Instagram have overdone
it with the value and the education and
the quick tips and the lesson learned.
And let's be real here, your local
library is filled with some really,
really valuable textbooks that have some
great education in them, but they're
sitting there collecting dust and they
haven't been checked out in years
because they're boring. They're not
entertaining. They don't tell a story.
They're not vulnerable. They're not
authentic. They don't have a strong
hook. They don't have a strong
throughine or narrative. They're just
kind of some education. And so my tip
for you is in this carousel where you're
breaking the norm. Entertain, don't
educate. And you can do that by doing
all the things that I just listed. Focus
on storytelling. Focus on the visuals.
Focus on the hook and less on the value
that you're providing. Back in 2016 when
I started my first real online business,
I remember that my head was filled with
so many whatifs. What if no one buys
this? What if I'm an impostor? What if
there's no market? What if I can't sell?
What if? What if? What if? What if this
is all just a big waste of time and I'm
just banging my head against the wall?
But what I wish someone told me back
then is just like you can imagine all
the negative whatifs, there are just as
many, if not more, positive whatifs.
What if this works out? What if this is
my breakthrough? What if this is what
sets me financially free? And thanks to
one of today's sponsors, Shopify,
it's easier than ever to turn those
positive whatifs into reality. Shopify
is the e-commerce platform behind
millions of businesses around the world.
And it now represents about 10% of the
entire e-commerce market in the US. From
some of the most famous and well-known
brands in the world like Gym Shark to
solopreneurs, Shopify has you covered.
Shopify helps you get the word out about
your e-commerce business as if you had
an entire marketing team behind you. It
easily helps you create email and social
campaigns so that you can attract
customers wherever they're scrolling.
And if you ever get stuck, Shopify has
24/7 roundthe-clock awardwinning
customer support. That way you can
tackle the important tasks from
inventory to payments to analytics all
in one place. No need to bookmark
multiple websites and sign up for
multiple tools. You can do it all in
Shopify. It makes your life easier and
it makes your business operations run
smoother. It's time to turn those
whatifs into with Shopify today. Sign up
for your $1 per month trial at
shopify.com/tribe.
Go to shopify.com/tribe.
That's s h o p i f.com/t
r i be. Now, just as important as the
things that you should do, there are
probably some things that you're
thinking, "Oh, maybe I could try this
that I'm going to tell you not to do."
And the first thing that I'm going to
tell you not to do is don't buy
followers, don't buy likes, don't buy
engagement. If this is something that
you've done in the past, that might be a
huge part of the reason that you now
feel shadowbanned because Instagram is
like, "Hey, this person got all these
followers in the past, but now they're
not engaging." Well, yeah, they're not
engaging cuz they're fake followers that
you purchased. Well, hey, this person
used to get so many likes, but now
they're not getting very many likes.
Well, yeah, cuz you used to buy a,000
likes per post. Please do not, for the
love of God, ever purchase followers,
likes, engagement, or anything like
that. Tip number two to break out of the
shadowban is to focus on shareworthy
content. Like I've said a few times, the
algorithm cares about watch rate, likes,
and the best of all is shares. And let's
think about it. When someone shares a
post with someone else, it brings that
other person back to the platform. It
improves that person's experience on the
platform. They're now connecting with
someone. They feel like, "Hey, I'm
interacting with my friends. I love
Instagram. It's such a social platform.
It's a great place for me and my bestie
or me and my wife or me and my
boyfriend, whatever, to connect." And so
Instagram rewards shares significantly
more than anything else. In fact,
according to an Insta Club study from
2026, one Instagram share usually
equates to 400 additional views. That
means if you get just three shares, your
post will get a,000 extra views. And not
only is it more quantity of viewers,
it's higher quality of viewers as well
because it's not the algorithm guessing.
It's not a post going viral and just
reaching a bunch of people. It's one
person sending it to someone else who
they think would be interested. someone
who they think, "Oh yeah, we've talked
about that before. Oh yeah, she'll
relate to this. Oh yeah, he'll think
that this is super funny because it will
remind him of that one time we did that
one thing." And so a share is a better
viewer. Someone who's more likely to
become an engager, a follower, and a
customer. Now, I've done another entire
episode about shareworthy content, but
to break it down real simply for you, I
have an acronym, and the acronym is
share. S H A R E. And the S stands for
simple. The more simple your posts are,
the more simple the words in your post
are, the more easy it is to understand
your posts, the more likely people are
to watch, engage, and follow. There's
this classic idea in marketing called
the drunk grandma. And it's basically
that your posts need to be so simple
they could be understood by a drunk
grandma. I also say that they need to be
so simple that they could be understood
by a fifth grader. And if you've ever
watched that show, Are You Smarter Than
a Fifth Grader? You'll know that most
people are not smarter than a fifth
grader. It's not necessarily that like
all of your followers are dumb or that
you're trying to attract a low IQ
follower. It's simply that people are
seeing thousands upon thousands of posts
every day and they're not seeing like
every single one of yours. They're not
even like in the mindset of like who you
are. It's not like they're scrolling
through your page before they see your
new post. They just watched a post about
rock climbing and then they watched a
post about F1 and then they watched a
post about snowboarding and then your
cake baking video popped up in their
feed. So, they're kind of having to
quickly orient themselves and understand
what this post is about and then decide
whether or not they want to keep
watching. And so, if your post uses
fancy lingo and acronyms and it's
confusing and you use an analogy that
doesn't really make sense, people are
going to get bored or confused and
they're going to scroll away. So,
simplify your posts. H stands for hook.
Your hook is where you should focus most
of your time, energy, and attention. 80%
of the resources, the time you spend
crafting, the brainstorming, the AI,
whatever you end up using for your posts
should be focused on the first few
seconds, the first sentence, or at least
the first few frames of your video at
the beginning of your post. Your hooks
need to be as simple as possible. They
need to be as concise, which means as
short as possible. And if possible, use
a negative word in your hook. Like
don't, stop, avoid, cancel, stay away
from, unpopular. Things like that are
more likely to grab our attention than
their positive counterparts. The A
stands for authentic. And my pro tip for
you to be more authentic is to just be
you. No, I'm just kidding. My pro tip
for you to be authentic is to reduce the
time between idea and execution. the
less filming, elling, script writing,
refining, massaging, AIing that you can
do to your posts, the more authentic
they will be. If you can say, "Hey, I
have this idea of this story I want to
tell." And you can record it on your
phone, FaceTime style, just whip out
your phone and start recording and then
post it, that will be as authentic as
possible. R stands for relatable. And
relatability comes from specificity.
What I mean by that is the more specific
that you can get in your examples, the
more specific that you can get in the
text that you're putting in your hook,
the more specific you can get in the
circumstance that you are labeling your
meme with, the more people will relate
to it and thus share it. For example, if
I'm to post a picture of someone crying,
like a the crying Michael Jordan meme,
and I say me when my post flops, that's
kind of funny. It's kind of relatable,
and I'm sure some people will share it.
But if I take that exact same meme and I
add a more specific piece of text that
instead says me when I spend 3 hours
editing my reel and it gets seven likes,
that will be way more shareworthy. It's
way more specific. It feels more
authentic and it is more relatable. The
final letter in this acronym again is E.
And E is something that we have already
talked about which is you should be
focused on entertainment first and
education second. Most people are so
overly focused on the value, which turns
into so overly focused on the
educational tips that they forget that
if your post isn't entertaining in the
first place, ain't nobody going to learn
or watch your educational tips. So,
focus on entertainment first. The second
thing that I would recommend avoiding if
you're stuck in the 200 view jail is 7se
secondond reels. 7-second reels in
general are fine. If your reel ends up
being 7 seconds, that's fine. But what
I'm talking about here are the reels
that are like super short. They have
some sensationalized, overly dramatic,
overdone clickbait style hook up at the
top and then you're like, "What is it?"
Like you're you're waiting for whatever
the the tip is. You're waiting for the
story and then it's like read the
caption. Instagram is a visual platform.
So, why are you making your followers
read this little tiny size three font
that is the most basic like just white
font on a black background or vice
versa? And it's not engaging and you're
like forcing yourself to write this
multi paragraph essay that's so boring
in the caption. Posts are like farts. If
you have to force them, they're usually
So, can your reels be 7 seconds
long? Sure. Can you write a long
caption? Sure. But if you're forcing
yourself to make a super short reel just
to force people to then read the caption
because you're like, "Oh, well then
they're going to watch the reel for
more." You're not actually getting more
viewers. You're just getting one person
who's forced to read a long caption and
it's counting their view three or four
times cuz they played it over and over
again. You're not actually getting that
many more viewers. And in the long run,
that's going to lead to diminishing
returns. Instead, tip number three to
actually break out of the shadowban is
to start some sort of series or
challenge and especially one that
incentivizes an engagement or a follow.
This is something that I've talked about
quite a lot in 2026. And I am begging
you to please start one. The challenge
that I'm doing on my Instagram is
reviewing one of my followers reels
every single day until I reach 1 million
followers. And then I tell people if
they want to enter in to have their reel
reviewed, all they have to do is like my
reel. Now I've incentivized the like.
So, people are going to be liking the
reel in the hopes that I review theirs
the next day. And there's kind of an
implied call to action to follow as well
because I say I'm reviewing the reels of
my followers. So, if you're not
following me, you're not going to get a
review. This has spiked my engagement.
Every single time I post one of those
posts, which is now a daily challenge, I
get great engagement and great views and
great interaction. And it's something
that I don't have to think very hard
about. I don't have to reinvent the
wheel. I don't have to come up with a
new idea. I know that every single day
I'm going to have at least one reel
posted because I'm just going to stick
with my daily challenge. When you're
coming up with your daily challenge, you
want to number one, make sure that it
relates to your niche in some way. So,
if you're a running coach, running one
step for every follower that you gained
is awesome. If you are someone who does
cake baking recipes, then running one
step for every follower gained doesn't
really make sense. Number two is you
want the challenge to actually be
challenging. You don't want it to just
be like 30 days of eating keto. Like,
yeah, that's challenging. And I get it.
It's probably not easy for everyone, but
that's not something worth watching.
That's not something worth coming back
to. If it was like an entire day of keto
eating under $10 or under $1, now it's
challenging. Now it's interesting.
There's kind of that limitation on it.
But if it's just a month of clean
eating, why would I watch? It's not that
cool. It's not that engaging. And I'm
not saying you need to be crazy. I'm not
saying that you need to be like
outlandish. I'm not saying that you need
to run a mile for every follower that
you gain, but the more challenging you
can make your challenge, the more likely
people are to actually watch. The next
thing that you should absolutely not do
if you feel like you are shadowbanned,
and this one is taught by some social
media experts, and it makes me so angry
when I see people talking about this,
it's removing followers. Whether it's
removing people who you think are
inactive followers, people who you think
might not be ideal followers, removing
people who are bots or spam. I don't
care what the reason is, you should not
be removing followers in bulk. It does
not help. There have been many studies
done and a lot of anecdotal evidence
that has shown that when you remove
massive amounts of followers, your
future posts perform worse. The thought
is like, well, if I have 100 followers
and 30 of them are spammers and I remove
those 30 spammers, now I only have 70
followers and so my engagement rate is
going to go up. If I only have 70 people
and I'm getting the same amount of
likes, that's a higher engagement rate
than before. And while mathematically
that is true, what actually happens is
the algorithm stops and is like, whoa,
this person just lost 30% of their
followers. This person just lost 50
followers. This person just lost a
thousand followers. whether you block
them, you remove them, they unfollowed.
The algorithm doesn't care. The
algorithm just sees that your following
went and so they show your future posts
to less people because again from the
algorithm's perspective, these aren't
spammers or robots or non ideal
followers. These are just people who are
suddenly unfollowing you and are not
interested in your post. And so
Instagram's like, "Whoa, there must be
something funky going on here. There
must be some bad post. We're going to
show this person's post to less people."
So, please don't remove or block or
force unfollow a bunch of people from
your account. My fourth and final tip
for you to break out of the shadowban is
what I call the break in case of
emergency strategy. If you've ever seen
those like, you know, fire alarms or
there's like a fire extinguisher and it
says like break in case of emergency.
You're not going to be doing this every
day. You're not going to be doing this
every month. You're probably not even
going to be doing this more than once a
year. But if you firmly believe that you
are shadowbanned, if you are already,
maybe you've already written it, or
maybe you're seething watching me
throughout this episode, you're going to
leave this nasty comment about how you
are shadowbanned and I'm BS and you're
unsubscribing and that's you and you
just can't, no matter what you do, break
out of the shadowban, then you can make
a post that is directly calling out the
shadowban. Now, the algorithm is not
going to be like, "Oh, they got me. I'm
going to start showing their post to
more people." But here's what you can
do. You can make a post again probably a
carousel so that it reaches more of your
followers than non-f followers and in
that carousel or in that post you can
say hey I think I'm shadowbanned if you
are seeing this comment hi in the
comments basically calling out the fact
that your engagement or your views have
been super low and asking people hey are
you even seeing this hello mic check is
this thing even on because that post
will get a lot of engagement it will
also probably reach a lot of people
unfortunately this could lead to some of
those people unfollow following you. If
they're like, "Gh, this is annoying.
Why' this person post this?" Or, "Oh,
yeah. I haven't seen her post in 3
years, and I don't really mind that I
haven't seen her post in 3 years. I'm
going to unfollow her." That could
happen. But what is also likely to
happen is that a lot of people are going
to engage, you're going to get a lot of
views. And then your subsequent
follow-up posts after that are also
going to get more views. And if those
posts are good posts, if they're
engaging, if they have good hooks, if
they're shareworthy, then it can
snowball and you can move back in the
positive direction where each post is
kind of building off of the one prior.
But again, I don't want you to do this
strategy all the time. I only want you
to use this if it is truly in case of
emergency and if it is your last ditch
effort to save your account and bring it
back. And finally, with all that being
said, the last and final thing that I
would not recommend doing if you feel
like you are shadowbanned is giving up.
Do not give up. I know it's challenging.
I know it sucks. I know it feels like
everyone else is going viral. I know it
feels like everyone else's engagement is
going up. And it's not true. The reality
is for 95 98% of us, it's a slog. There
are a few people who are just like viral
post, viral post, viral post, viral
post, but they're the anomaly. They're
the exception and they will probably
eventually burn out and be at the exact
same stage you are at. So, please
just take a deep breath and as Dory says
in Finding Nemo, just keep swimming.
Just keep swimming. Just keep posting,
posting, posting. Keep showing up. Keep
adding value. Keep entertaining. Keep
creating shareworthy content. Keep
improving 1% each day and eventually
things will improve. I firmly believe
that the biggest differentiator between
those that have success on Instagram and
those that do not is that the ones who
have success, they just kept going. They
had as many posts that flopped, they
probably had more posts that flopped.
They had as many posts, if not more,
that failed, that flounder, that didn't
do well. But they just kept showing up.
They kept improving. And they kept
posting. They kept embracing the suck
and moving [music] forward anyways. And
eventually they did blow up. Eventually
they did have success. Eventually they
did grow the audience that they wanted.
[music] Thank you so much for watching
today. And as always, happy networking.
>> [music]